So now let's actually start styling our collection page.
The first thing we're going to need to do before we actually start changing the timeline here is make
a small correction to the collection item styles so inside of our collection items styles we want to
change this with value from 22 percent to 22 to view with and the main difference between percent and
view width is that 22 percent as a width is actually just 22 percent of the containing divs with some
of our containing divs with is 100 pixel well are with would be 22 pixels because it was 22 percent
of that but using view with what this clarifies is that I want this component to be 22 percent of the
width of the actual window.
So for us if we were to decrease or increase the window size it would end up adapting as well because
it always has to be 22 percent of the total window width so that's just the small change we have to
make for collection item now inside of our collection component.
What we want to do is we want to de structure off the title and the items property off of our collection
and then we are going to render the title in place of the text of our collection page.
We're also going to give the H to the class name of title next door when I make a div that will contain
our collection items and we will say class name equals items and then we're going to map over our items
array and render out the collection item
giving it a key of the item dot I.D. as well as passing the item property our item element.
Now we have to actually apply our styles as well.
So if you check in your resources I of course have provided you with a sass page that has those styling.
So just copy them over and place them into your collection styles does SAS file and now if we look we'll
see that we have all of our elements.
One thing we have to do is make it so that our directory will take us to the correct page that we're
on so going back to our application inside of our directory reducer.
We're just going to update our link you URLs to have shops slash and then the actual link we're trying
to get to shop slash sneakers shop slash women's and shop slash men's.
Now if we go back to our application we'll see that our directory takes us to the correct category page.
Let's take this moment and think about something that I mentioned earlier that there are two ways that
we could store this shop data inside of our reducer so the way that we currently have it is that we
have it as an array and if we look at our shop selector what we do is we call dot fine on that array
and we match the I.D. based off of the you are our parameter that we get from our you are L so off or
on hats we get hats and we pass that into the selector which then we'll find the correct I.D. responding
to the correct collection item the issue with doing dot find is that we know that when we call it off
find out our array where are using and passing this function on every element in the array from left
to right so in a worst case scenario.
Let's say we had an array of a thousand items and the item we're looking for is the last one.
Well it would take way longer for it to iterate through every of the first nine hundred and ninety nine
elements before it finally finds the correct collection item we want and this is the flaw in storing
data that we need to query individual elements for inside of an array instead what we can do is we can
store it in an object instead.
If we were to store it in an object you can see how it's similar to what we did here with our collection
I.D. map where we find the actual property of our object by passing it and dynamically rendering the
property using this collection you are all parameter except instead of getting the I.D. we would actually
get the collection object itself this concept of storing lists of elements inside of an object instead
of an array is called data normalization and it's quite simple.
We can actually do it with this collection that we've currently got so let's go to our shop data DHS
and instead of an array Let's convert it over to an object and what we'll do is we will set the key
to the corresponding object.
With that you are all parameter we're going to pass it and usually we want to also make sure that something
on this piece of data is going to be inside of the object as it's going to be the key and we also want
to make sure that the key that we do use exists in the object itself.
Usually we would use an I.D. but in our case because our I.D. are numbers it's okay if we just use the
title but lowercase.
Right.
So for us the title also happens to be the euro parameter that we're using.
So we're going to pass hats to this object right as the key and then we're gonna do sneakers and then
we're going to do jackets for jackets women's for women's and men's for men's.
Now we actually have to also now update our selector but this is way simpler because all we're doing
instead of doing a collection not find is collections at the collection you are parameter and we don't
need this collection I.D. map anymore if we save this we look at our application we see that it still
works if we go to our jackets
it loads our jackets right because we're passing this you are a parameter into our selector and then
our selector goes into this new collections object and just gets the corresponding value based on this
property of jackets and this is actually the ideal way that we should be storing large arrays of elements
where we need the individual element inside of our reducer.
This is actually a pretty common thing that will encounter when talking about back ends and databases
especially when we look at the firebase section but all you need to know about data normalization is
that all it is is that you store lists of elements as objects instead of arrays.
Now we do have these items as an array as well as these sections as an array and that is okay for our
case because we probably are not going to need an individual element inside of these arrays.
If for example we had an individual product page where maybe we wanted the specific item then we might
do the same thing and convert these items that are existing inside of this array into an object instead.
But because we don't need that for the purposes of this application we can safely keep them in arrays.
It's not a big deal but now we've optimized this query search so that if this object of collections
grows to say hundreds or thousands of items it's just as fast searching for the last one as it is searching
for the first one because it just looks for the property on the object in order to get the corresponding
collection object.
Now let's move forward with our course.